>> Scott Moss: The challenge we're
gonna be doing is we're gonna be
setting up routing.
And basically,
what you need to do for this one is,
I'm just gonna walk you through it.
I'm just gonna get, stash this, actually,
I'll leave this up cuz I
think it'll be very helpful.
Will this be helpful, to see this?
Okay, I'll leave this stuff up actually.
So what we're gonna do,
is if you navigate over to API.
You'll see tons of stuff in here,
don't worry about it.
But you should see a file
called restRouter.
Right now restRouter is, there's one
example here that you can follow,
and you're gonna use the example
to build out the other end points.
But basically, the API that we're
gonna be making is a music API.
There's songs, there's playlists,
and there's users.
>> Scott Moss: Right now,
you can follow the example that I have for
the userRouter.
So basically what I'm doing here
is I'm creating a sub-router
inside of the restRouter.
And the reason I called it restRouter is
because we're gonna make a GraphQL router
tomorrow.
Any other way I would not
call it a restRouter, so
if you think the name is
ridiculous that's why.
[LAUGH] I'm separating the two for
tomorrow.
So this is our restRouter and
I made a new one.
And I'm mounting another sub-router on
that sub-router underneath
the user's path.
So basically,
what you would need to do is, one,
first thing first is
you need to mount that
restRouter on the api path on the app,
right?
So inside of this server.js,
you need to mount the api router on the,
I'm sorry, the restRouter, get it right.
On the /api path.
>> Scott Moss: So mount the restRouter on
the /api path, that's the first thing.
And then if you go look at
that restRouter, like I said,
this user example is fully fleshed out.
You're gonna do the same thing for
songRouter and playlistRouter.
We need two different mounts for
those, so we should be able to access
the playlistRouter underneath
the /playlist mount.
We should be able to access
the songRouter underneath the /song mount.
And then if you actually go look
at those individual routers, for
instance let's go look at the user
router in resources/user.
So resources/user inside the index file,
you'll see that it's just
pointing to the restRouter.
So if you go to the restRouter there,
you'll see here,
you see some pretty crazy stuff in here.
Now I'm just gonna walk
through this stuff briefly.
And I didn't really wanna talk about it
because I want I wanted to give you enough
for you to figure out what's going on
here, and I think I gave you enough.
But basically, this is a fully fleshed
out sub-router for the user resource.
You're gonna use this again as example
to flesh out the routers for the song.
If you go look at the song REST router,
it's empty.
If you go look at the playlist
REST router, it's also empty.
But it's gonna look pretty much
identical to the userRouter,
just using it's own router.
So let's walk through here.
I didn't talk about param.
Param is basically a way that we
can tell our router or express,
and say, hey somebody comes
in here with the URL and
it has a param on it,
like id, run this function.
That's what it's saying.
This function allows us to pick
off the parameter in the URL,
do something with it, and
send it back down the router.
So this doesn't respond to the request,
it does something with that parameter.
Usually like for instance,
let's say you wanna get user/1, right?
This is gonna take that 1 parameter,
go to the user database,
grab the user with id of 1.
Attach it to the request, call next, and
send it down to the next
thing that's there.
So that's what it's doing.
This is like a middleware almost, but
we haven't really talked about middleware.
So you don't really need to know what
any of these functions are doing.
You can just put them there.
Don't worry about it, they'll work.
We gonna get to these functions later.
But basically, you just need to set
up the routes and the handlers.
The other thing is, is this shortcut
here that I did not talk about.
I also did not talk about this cuz I
didn't want you to use a shortcut, but
if you understand it,
you can totally use it.
This shortcut on any router allows
you to use the .route method.
And it's just a shortcut so
you don't have to do this.
If we didn't use a .route,
we'd have to say userRouter.
Let's say userRouter('/') or
userRouter.get('/'), and then
you'll have to do userRouter.post('/'),
it's the same route, right?
We're gonna eventually do
two different controllers,
these are gonna be two different
actions here, but on the same route.
So .post allows you to, I'm sorry, .route
allows you to say hey, for this route,
I wanna do this get,
do this get, do this post.
You don't have to define the route twice,
that's all it's doing, so it's chainable.
So you can say, hey, for index and
for get, I wanna do that.
For index and post, I wanna do that.
The same thing for this route right here,
which is a parameter.
So for a /:id, get, post, delete, right?
So again,
this is a fully fleshed out userRouter.
And you need to flesh out
the songRouter and the playlistRouter.
And then you also need to hook
them up in the restRouter.js file,
very similar to what's going
on here with the userRouter.
And then finally, you need to hook
up the REST router to the app.
Right, so you've got five things to do.
Build out the songRouter,
build out the playlistRouter.
Attach the songRouter to the restRouter,
attach the playlistRouter
to the restRouter and
then attach the restRouter to that.
And the userRouter is a full
example of how to do all of it.
So you can look at that,
experiment with it.
There's definitely some stuff in
there that I not teach you about.
But I want you to play with it,
and see what you can think of.
Cuz then we'll walk through it and
I wanna see how you all think it works,
or how you know it works.
>> Speaker 2: Is this lesson
two in the Git check out?
>> Scott Moss: Yes,
this is lesson two, sorry.
Yeah, check out on lesson two.
>> Speaker 2: It looks like it
cares about Mongo on this lesson.
>> Scott Moss: It cares
about Mongo on this lesson?
Okay, so make sure you have
Mongo running on this one.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, just make sure you
have Mongo running, you should be fine.
If you don't have Mongo, then what you
need to do is you need to go into,
first need to go to mLab.
So if you don't have Mongo,
set up one on mLab, it's free.
And let me check out here and
show you where you gotta add your code.
>> Scott Moss: So yeah, make a Mongo
thing, and then go into db.js, and
just add in your Mongo URL there.
If you have Mongo just start it up,
you're fine.
If you don't have Mongo,
go to mLab, create a free database,
get the URL, the connection stream,
go to db.js and add it there.
>> Scott Moss: If you don't feel like
doing all that, that's totally fine.
You can also just go to server.js and
see online, where it says connect,
where it's invoking that function it says
connect, you can just comment that out.
That connects to the database,
you don't need it in this example.
So you can also just comment that out.
We're not at databases right now.